# Sample Collection

Direct sampling of acoustic backscattering layers using nets provides taxonomic composition and size distributions necessary to establish acoustic classification of dominant scatterers. Multifrequency echosounders mounted on the ship were used to monitor real-time scattering layer structures and to determine layer depths to be targeted by nets. An Isaacs-Kidd Midwater Trawl (IKMT; Isaacs and Kidd 1953, https://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/collection/L22/current/NETT0071/) with 4-m2 mouth opening was towed at typical speeds of 3.5-4 knots in the vicinity of at least three NES-LTER stations including the station at the shelfbreak front, one station inshore of the front, and one station offshore of the front. Together the dark color of the net and hardware, the relatively high towing speed, and the minimal bridle to create a head wake reduce net avoidance behavior by fast-swimming organisms. The net was rapidly deployed from surface to target depth to avoid collecting from non-target depths, since the net does not include a closure device. The depth of each trawl was guided by a real-time pressure sensor (Simrad PX). Some tows targeted a single depth, and some were tow-yos, in which the net was towed up and down within a target layer. In the case of a tow-yo, the target depth is provided in the metadata table as a range. During spring and summer 2023 cruises, catches were fixed in 10% buffered formalin on deck. Starting in fall 2023 (cruise AR77), catches were split in half and halves preserved separately in 10% buffered formalin and 95% ethanol, whenever possible. Trawling was initiated in spring 2023 and is ongoing. 

# Lab Processing of Samples

In the laboratory, organisms were identified to the lowest possible taxonomic level using a dissecting microscope. Each identified taxon was counted. Reported abundance represents the total individuals caught per cast. For the abundant taxa (e.g. euphausiids and amphipods), the samples were split using a Folsom plankton sample splitter until approximately 200 individuals remained in a given split. Those individuals were identified and counted, then counts of each species within that group were multiplied according to their split-fraction to obtain the total abundance in the sample. Typical gelatinous organisms include hydromedusae, siphonophore bracts, and salps. 

# Data Cleaning and Assembly

Where possible, column headers correspond to Darwin Core terms. Package assembly was completed in R; see https://github.com/WHOIGit/nes-lter-trawl-transect-abundance for details. 
# Differences from Previous Version

Data from all four NES cruises in 2024 were added. This addition included 33 taxa new to the data set. The lifeStage column included in version 1 was eliminated. The counts from event AR77_4 were all corrected by a factor of 2 in version 2. Some verbatimID entries were edited.
